---
layout: page
title: Norms and Policies
permalink: /policies/
nav_order: 7
has_children: true
---

## What if we read or discuss uncomfortable topics?

This course addresses emotionally and socially charged topics: our
design and uses of technologies! Reading about or discussing those
topics might present ideas or situations that you find distressing --
such as suffering, manipulation, and forms of bigotry or oppression. So
you might find some readings, images, and language discomfiting. ut
sometimes we can best understand an issue, and each other's views, only
by being willing to face and understand distressing things. Seeing such
challenges as chances for growth can be one way to help yourself face
whatever discomfort you feel during the course. I also encourage you to
talk with me and/or the TA about your experiences in the course.

## How much time will I need to devote to this course?

There is tension between some people's expectations that an intro-level
course should be "easier" and the reality that it's still a
4-credit-hour course. This course meets for a bit more than 3
instructional hours per week for 13 weeks. **The university's general
guideline for such a course, regardless of the level, is that you spend
2 hours on course-related work (including reading) outside of class for
every 1 hour you spend in class.** That's what's typical, not a
requirement. However, the course readings and assignments might require
more time than you expect, so your results might vary.

## What kinds of support are available to help me succeed?

First, **remember that Northeastern wouldn't have admitted you if they
didn't think that you could succeed here**. In addition to me, there are
people and resources to help any Northeastern student who could benefit
from them. For example:

***You have a disability or other source of need***: For people who
qualify under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Northeastern
facilitates and supports the implementation of reasonable
accommodations, including resources and services for students with
documented disabilities, chronic medical conditions, temporary
disabilities, or pregnancy complications resulting in difficulties with
accessing learning opportunities. **You don't have to disclose any
disabilities or impairments to me unless you wish to receive
accommodations for them**. See the Disability Access Service's website
for information about requests for academic accommodations:
[[https://disabilityaccessservices.sites.northeastern.edu]](https://disabilityaccessservices.sites.northeastern.edu)

***You'd like to confidentially discuss your health (including mental
health)***: If you or someone you know would like to discuss
confidential information about health (including mental health), contact
Northeastern's Health and Counseling Services at
([[http://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/counseling-services/]](http://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/counseling-services/))
or We Care
([[http://www.northeastern.edu/wecare/]](http://www.northeastern.edu/wecare/)).

***You or someone you know has been harassed or assaulted***:
Northeastern's Title IX Policy prohibits Prohibited Offenses, which are
defined as sexual harassment, sexual assault, relationship or domestic
violence, and stalking. The policy applies to all students, faculty, and
staff. If you or someone you know has been harassed or assaulted, you
can always get *confidential* support and guidance from University
Health and Counseling Services staff
([[http://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/]](http://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/))
and the Center for Spiritual Dialogue and Service clergy members
([[http://www.northeastern.edu/spirituallife/]](http://www.northeastern.edu/spirituallife/)).
You can report alleged violations *non-confidentially* to the Title IX
Coordinator within The Office for Gender Equity and Compliance
([[titleix@northeastern.edu]](mailto:titleix@northeastern.edu))
and/or through NUPD (Emergency 617.373.3333; Non-Emergency
617.373.2121). Reporting Prohibited Offenses to NUPD does *not* commit
the victim/affected party to future legal action.

> **Note**: As a faculty member, I am considered a "responsible
> employee" at Northeastern University. **That means that I'm legally
> required to report all allegations of race-, sex-, or gender-based
> discrimination to the university's Title IX Coordinator**.

You can find a complete list of reporting options and resources, both
on- and off-campus, at
[[www.northeastern.edu/titleix]](http://www.northeastern.edu/titleix).

***You or someone you know has been unfairly discriminated against***:
The Office for University Equity and Compliance is responsible
for investigating complaints of discrimination. Any member of the
Northeastern community who believes that they have been discriminated
against should report the incident promptly through the [[On-Line
Discrimination Complaint
Form]](https://cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?NortheasternUniv&layout_id=7) ([[https://www.northeastern.edu/ouec/reporting-options/discrimination/]](https://www.northeastern.edu/ouec/reporting-options/discrimination/))
which exists to assist the complainant in formulating a concise
statement of their allegations and goes directly to the Office for
University Equity and Compliance.

***You need an accommodation because of religious observances***: If you
cannot attend class, participate in required course activities, or take
a scheduled exam because of religious observances, then I will give you
a reasonable opportunity to make up the course work without penalty. You
can find the university policy on religious observance at
[[http://www.northeastern.edu/policies/pdfs/Policy_on_Instructional_Accommodations_for_Student_Religious_Observance_rsa1.pdf]](http://www.northeastern.edu/policies/pdfs/Policy_on_Instructional_Accommodations_for_Student_Religious_Observance_rsa1.pdf).

***You'd like tutoring services***: Northeastern's peer tutoring program
([[https://undergraduate.northeastern.edu/peer-tutoring/]](https://undergraduate.northeastern.edu/peer-tutoring/))
is free and open to all NU undergraduate students.

***You're an international student and would like tutoring or other
support***: Northeastern's International Tutoring Center (ITC) -
[[https://international.northeastern.edu/gss/]](https://international.northeastern.edu/gss/) -
gives Northeastern's international students free, comprehensive English
language and academic support. The ITC includes English as a Second
Language Tutoring (ESL), Language and Culture Workshops, and Reading
Workshops.

***You'd like to get general help with research materials***: [[Snell
Library]](https://library.northeastern.edu/) offers a
variety of resources for undergraduate research, including
subject-specific [[Research
Guides]](https://subjectguides.lib.neu.edu/?b=g&d=a), help
with citation and bibliography, and round-the-clock chat support.

***You'd like to get general help strengthening your writing***: Visit
the NU Writing Center:
[[http://www.northeastern.edu/writingcenter/]](http://www.northeastern.edu/writingcenter/).

***You have a concern about this course***: Please first start by
talking with me! Although it might feel uncomfortable or even scary to
do that, I'd like the chance to hear and address your concerns. If that
doesn't help, then you can contact the chairperson of the
Philosophy/Religion department, Prof. Rory Smead. For information about
formal academic appeals policies and procedures, see the 2024-25
Undergraduate Student Handbook at
[[https://admissions.northeastern.edu/undergraduate-student-handbook/]](https://admissions.northeastern.edu/undergraduate-student-handbook/).

## What if I miss class?

I expect you to attend as many class meetings as possible. However, you
might sometimes have to be absent, for any number of reasons. If you
need to miss class:

- You **do not** need to contact me in advance!

- **NEVER** ask me any version of, "Did I miss anything important?", since
  of course you did.

- Make time to discuss that day's materials with me. I don't record the
  class meetings, but I'm happy to answer your questions, and you can
  also annotate that day's Prep document or ask to see your classmates'
  notes.

- **You won't be able to make up any In-Class Activity assignment from
  that day's class**, but you are still responsible for making
  arrangements to submit any *other* assignments that were due that
  day.

**If I need to miss class**: I will do my best to hold class over Zoom,
rather than canceling class. I'll email you as soon as possible to let
you know about the switch and will send the link so that we can still
hold class that way. If that's unfeasible, then I'll notify the class as
soon as possible and will plan an alternative activity for you.

## Can I cheat in this class?

In the sense of "can" that refers to what's metaphysically possible,
sure. But you already know that cheating is unethical and that it
undermines the foundations of your education. To foster individual and
communal academic integrity, Northeastern subscribes to the principles
of an academic integrity policy. I presume that any work that you hand
in under your own name -- even if it's a draft -- has followed that
policy. *If you find that you can't say that about something that you
have submitted, let me know immediately*.

Also, **why** do you want to cheat? If it's because you're feeling
deadling pressure, then cheating is a *really bad* way to address that
fear! Instead, check the late work policy for this course, below. If you
still decide that you need to cheat on something, then I'll treat that
work as if you hadn't submitted it at all. That means you get no credit
for having done the assignment, and I notify the Office of Student
Conduct and Conflict Resolution about the violation. If that happens
more than once, then you'll fail the course.

**Your Responsibility to the Academic Integrity Policy** -- In short:
you can't claim that someone else's words or ideas are yours; you can't
use unauthorized materials or resources; you can't do things to try to
gain unfair advantages over your classmates; and you can't work with
other people unless I say you can. To see Northeastern's full Academic
Honesty and Integrity Policy, go to
[[https://osccr.sites.northeastern.edu/academic-integrity-policy/]](https://osccr.sites.northeastern.edu/academic-integrity-policy/).

## Grading
There will be four programming assignments and a final project. You will complete the assignments individually, and the project in a group of 3-4. The overall grading breakdown is:
* 36% Individual homework assignments
* 29% Team final project
* 10% Participation in synchronous, in-class activities
* 25% Final exam

**Grading grievances:** If you have concerns regarding the grading of your work, please let us know *right away* by opening a regrade request in GradeScope. Do not post on Piazza or your TA or instructor: GradeScope provides an interface that allows us to review all regrade requests in one place.  All regrade requests must be submitted within 14 days from your receipt of the graded work. If your regrade request is closed and you feel that the response was not satisfactory, you may appeal to the instructor via email within 48 hours.

## Classroom Environment

To create and preserve a classroom atmosphere that optimizes teaching and learning, all participants share a responsibility in creating a civil and non-disruptive forum for the discussion of ideas. Students are expected to conduct themselves at all times in a manner that does not disrupt teaching or learning. Your comments to others should be constructive and free from harassing statements. You are encouraged to disagree with other students and the instructor, but such disagreements need to respectful and be based upon facts and documentation (rather than prejudices and personalities). The instructors reserve the right to interrupt conversations that deviate from these expectations. Repeated unprofessional or disrespectful conduct may result in a lower grade or more severe consequences. Part of the learning process in this course is respectful engagement of ideas with others.

Please don't be late. You are an essential part of the class. Your participation is an essential part of the class. If you are late, please be courteous to others when entering.

BE PRESENT WHEN YOU ARE ATTENDING CLASS. Please do not distract yourself from the class by doing other activities such as phone calls, email, facebook, chat/IM/texting, games, web surfing -- unless it has a direct bearing on the course. Then, by all means, surf away!

Attendance in the synchronous meetings is expected (either in person, or remotely). Sometimes you cannot avoid missing a class. If you need to be away from class, it is your responsibility to catch up on the materials discussed in the class.

## Accommodations for Disabilities
Students who have disabilities who wish to receive academic services and/or accommodations should visit the [Disability Resource Center](http://www.northeastern.edu/drc) at 20 Dodge Hall or call (617) 373-2675. If you have already done so, please provide your letter from the DRC to the Instructor early in the semester so that they can arrange those accommodations.

## Title IX Notice
*Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects individuals from sex or gender-based discrimination, including discrimination based on gender-identity, in educational programs and activities that receive federal financial assistance.*

Northeastern's Title IX Policy prohibits Prohibited Offenses, which are defined as sexual harassment, sexual assault, relationship or domestic violence, and stalking. The Title IX Policy applies to the entire community, including students, faculty and staff of all gender identities.

If you or someone you know has been a survivor of a Prohibited Offense, ***confidential*** support and guidance can be found through [University Health and Counseling Services staff](http://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/) and the [Center for Spiritual Dialogue and Service clergy members](http://www.northeastern.edu/spirituallife/). By law, those employees are not required to report allegations of sex or gender-based discrimination to the University.

Alleged violations can be reported non-confidentially to the Title IX Coordinator within ***The Office for Gender Equity and Compliance*** at: [titleix@northeastern.edu](mailto:titleix@northeastern.edu) and/or through **NUPD** (Emergency 617.373.3333; Non-Emergency 617.373.2121). Reporting Prohibited Offenses to NUPD does **NOT** commit the victim/affected party to future legal action.

Faculty members are considered "responsible employees" at Northeastern University, meaning they are required to report all allegations of sex or gender-based discrimination to the Title IX Coordinator.

In case of an emergency, please call 911.

Please visit [www.northeastern.edu/ouec](https://www.northeastern.edu/ouec) for a complete list of reporting options and resources both on- and off-campus.
